We are going to repeat the validation for email and password fields, but the tests are going to be
similar, like almost identical to the ones we have at the moment.
So instead of repeating ourselves, we can come up with a better solution.
So like in the test, we are entering values and we are checking the specific text.
We are focusing to the specific elements like this.
These can be used as a parameter and we can have parametric tests for this case.
So right here we can have an array of like we can gather all the, the data set in the arrays, like
we can have the let's say, let's say we have the test cases and this is going to be an array.
And in each of them we can have an object like one of the the property will be, let's say this is the
field.
And in this one we will be having the name of the field we are querying.
So like this is going to be username and the next thing is we are entering value in this one.
We don't do that, but we can repeat the same thing in this one as well.
So like we could have entered an empty text or something like that.
So we are entering a value in each test.
And the last thing is we are querying this message, the error message we are querying here.
So let's say this is the error we are looking for.
So this is the the values for the first test and for the second one.
Again, we are creating the username field and we are filling with this value 1 to 3.
So the value will be this one and we are querying this message, this error message.
So it's going to be like this.
So we have this array and what we can do is we can loop in this area for each.
And we can have a function for each item so we can structure them like this field value and error.
Then we can have a single test it.
Then we can also use the values in the test description as well.
So like this it displays the error when.
Field has.
Value.
So it displays username is required when username has this value.
So in this test, basically we are going to just, just going to copy the, the one with the character
validation, length validation.
So pasting here.
So we are going to query the existence of this validation dev.
But this part will be dynamic.
So this is for the username validation, but the email will also have the name like this email validation,
password validation and so on.
So let's make sure this is, this is taking.
This part from the field.
So like this.
Then also we do the same thing here as well.
This is field and this needs to be in Bektic.
And let's go with the generic name.
Let's say this is input and as a value we are using this value and it is dispatching this input, then
blurring.
Then again, we are querying this.
Element.
And checking its content, which is going to be the error message here.
So just commenting out these two and let's save this.
So here in the validation we have test it displays username is required when username has this is empty
text and the second one is displays.
Username must be at least four characters long.
One username has this one so we can enhance this visibility part.
Like we can put the value into codes like this, single codes and the output is like this.
So this is how we can have a solution for repeating tests.
Now we can get rid of this one.
We don't need those.
And let's also do the same thing for the just test.
We can do the same thing, like same approach, same exact approach, or just already has built in functionality
for it.
And that's like this it each.
And in bektic we are defining a table like like in this one, we are creating the text, we are creating
the label, and again, we are having a value.
So like this is a table, like a markdown table.
So the, the first line will be representing the the column names.
So like the first one is we can say label and the second column will be input value.
And the last column, let's say it's going to be this message.
Now the label by the way, remember we are typing it in Bektic.
So for the label we will have the value of username and for that we need to pass it like this value
in the dollar and curly braces.
So this is the label username and then we will have the value as and the value will be empty.
But this is going to be showing a warning to us.
We will fix that.
But at the moment, let's say the input value will will be empty and the message will be username is
required.
And the next line again this is username.
Label value will be 1 to 3 and the value will be the message will be this one.
So this is it.
Age after the closing.
We are opening and closing parentheses.
And in this parentheses this is the test function.
The first parameter is the test description and the second parameter is just like the other test.
It's the test implementation.
Now here in the test description, we can do something like this.
It displays we can access to these values with dollar sign.
It displays message when.
Label has the value and we can type the input value in the double quotes here.
Input value.
So in the text description, we we are able to access to these values like this.
And in the function, we also need to access to the values.
And just like in our solution right here, this is passed as object.
And we can use the object structuring to get the label input, value and message.
So this is the parameters this function is receiving.
Again, copying this test with the length validation.
Now, we don't need this message variable because we are already taking the message as parameter right
here.
And the label will be label value will be input value.
And let's rename this to input.
And just commenting out the others.
Let's save this one.
Now one of the tests is failing and the failing one is the test.
With it displays username is required.
One username has the value empty.
So this empty case is causing problem because when we call the user event type with empty value, it
is failing.
Instead of just passing an empty value, we can hitting space, we can do something like this space
and then back space.
So this would be like similar.
What a user does, focuses to the element, hits space, then hits backspace.
So in the end it's ending up with an empty input.
So let's format this document and let's save this one.
And it is outpacing so we can remove the command style parts now.
Now when we added this, we will just add a new line.
And this, for instance, it's going to be for the email and it's going to be for the required case.
And that's it.